README.md, before:

# Slideviewer

Slideviewer is a whole-slide image viewer for digital pathology.

## How to build

### Windows
You can build the program using CMake and the MinGW-w64 toolchain.

You may wish to install `nasm` so that the SIMD-optimized assembly code in libjpeg-turbo can be compiled.

All library code is included with the source code distribution (there are no other external dependencies).

### Linux / macOS

Make sure the build tools `cmake` and (optionally) `nasm` are installed.

The following libraries are required: SDL2 (on Linux and macOS), GLEW (Linux only).
```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
cd ..
cmake --build build --target slideviewer -- -j
./slideviewer
```


## Supported image formats

The viewer has built-in support for:
* Tiled TIFF and BigTIFF (including generic and Philips TIFF variants).
* Philips iSyntax.

The program can also detect and load the [OpenSlide](https://github.com/openslide/openslide) library at runtime. 
If OpenSlide is present, the Aperio, Hamamatsu, Leica, MIRAX, Sakura, Trestle, and Ventana formats can additionally be loaded.

To enable OpenSlide support on Windows, download (or compile) the [64-bit binaries](https://openslide.org/download/) 
and put all of the DLL files together in an `openslide/` folder, and put that folder in the same location as `slideviewer.exe`.

To enable OpenSlide support on Linux, install the `openslide` library, either using a package manager or 
by building and installing it manually. The program will try to locate `libopenslide.so`, either in the 
default system library paths or in `/usr/local/lib/`.

To enable OpenSlide support on macOS, install the `openslide` library using Homebrew or MacPorts.
The program will try to locate `libopenslide.dylib` in the default install path: either `/usr/local/opt/openslide/lib/` for
Homebrew, or `/opt/local/lib/` for MacPorts.

## Credits

Slideviewer embeds code from the following projects, under their respective licenses:
* [Dear ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) (graphical interface library)
* [FreeType](https://www.freetype.org/index.html) (font renderer)
* [libjpeg-turbo](https://github.com/libjpeg-turbo/libjpeg-turbo) (JPEG image codec)
* [Mbed TLS](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbedtls) (SSL/TLS and cryptography library)
* [Yxml](https://dev.yorhel.nl/yxml) (XML parser)
* [json.h](https://github.com/sheredom/json.h) (JSON parser)
* [linmath.h](https://github.com/datenwolf/linmath.h) (linear math library)
* [stb_image.h](https://github.com/nothings/stb) (image loader)
* [OpenJPEG](https://github.com/uclouvain/openjpeg) (discrete wavelet transform)
* [LZ4](https://github.com/lz4/lz4) (compression algorithm)
* [base64.c](http://web.mit.edu/freebsd/head/contrib/wpa/src/utils/base64.c) (base64 decoder)
* [cityhash](https://github.com/google/cityhash/blob/8af9b8c2b889d80c22d6bc26ba0df1afb79a30db/src/city.cc#L50) (byte swap operations)
* [stb_ds.h](https://github.com/nothings/stb/blob/master/stb_ds.h) (typesafe dynamic array and hash tables for C)
* [ltalloc](https://github.com/r-lyeh-archived/ltalloc) (fast memory allocator)
* [glad](https://github.com/Dav1dde/glad) (OpenGL loader)
* [Keycode](https://github.com/depp/keycode) (library for platform-independent keyboard input handling)
* [ImGuiFileDialog](https://github.com/aiekick/ImGuiFileDialog) (file dialog for dear ImGui)

Uses [SDL2](https://www.libsdl.org/download-2.0.php) and [GLEW](http://glew.sourceforge.net/) on Linux/macOS.

The application icon was made by [Freepik](https://www.flaticon.com/authors/freepik) from [Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/).

## License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

See [LICENSE.txt](https://github.com/Falcury/slideviewer/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) for more information.

Commit message:

Change project name to Slidescape
Also, bump the version number to 0.38

README.md, after:

# Slidescape

Slidescape is a whole-slide image viewer for digital pathology.

## How to build

### Windows
You can build the program using CMake and the MinGW-w64 toolchain.

You may wish to install `nasm` so that the SIMD-optimized assembly code in libjpeg-turbo can be compiled.

All library code is included with the source code distribution (there are no other external dependencies).

### Linux / macOS

Make sure the build tools `cmake` and (optionally) `nasm` are installed.

The following libraries are required: SDL2 (on Linux and macOS), GLEW (Linux only).
```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
cd ..
cmake --build build --target slidescape -- -j
./slidescape
```


## Supported image formats

The viewer has built-in support for:
* Tiled TIFF and BigTIFF (including generic and Philips TIFF variants).
* Philips iSyntax.

Slidescape can also detect and load the [OpenSlide](https://github.com/openslide/openslide) library at runtime. 
If OpenSlide is present, the Aperio, Hamamatsu, Leica, MIRAX, Sakura, Trestle, and Ventana formats can additionally be loaded.

To enable OpenSlide support on Windows, download (or compile) the [64-bit binaries](https://openslide.org/download/) 
and put all of the DLL files together in an `openslide/` folder, and put that folder in the same location as `slidescape.exe`.

To enable OpenSlide support on Linux, install the `openslide` library, either using a package manager or 
by building and installing it manually. The program will try to locate `libopenslide.so`, either in the 
default system library paths or in `/usr/local/lib/`.

To enable OpenSlide support on macOS, install the `openslide` library using Homebrew or MacPorts.
The program will try to locate `libopenslide.dylib` in the default install path: either `/usr/local/opt/openslide/lib/` for
Homebrew, or `/opt/local/lib/` for MacPorts.

## Credits

Slidescape embeds code from the following projects, under their respective licenses:
* [Dear ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) (graphical interface library)
* [FreeType](https://www.freetype.org/index.html) (font renderer)
* [libjpeg-turbo](https://github.com/libjpeg-turbo/libjpeg-turbo) (JPEG image codec)
* [Mbed TLS](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbedtls) (SSL/TLS and cryptography library)
* [Yxml](https://dev.yorhel.nl/yxml) (XML parser)
* [json.h](https://github.com/sheredom/json.h) (JSON parser)
* [linmath.h](https://github.com/datenwolf/linmath.h) (linear math library)
* [stb_image.h](https://github.com/nothings/stb) (image loader)
* [OpenJPEG](https://github.com/uclouvain/openjpeg) (discrete wavelet transform)
* [LZ4](https://github.com/lz4/lz4) (compression algorithm)
* [base64.c](http://web.mit.edu/freebsd/head/contrib/wpa/src/utils/base64.c) (base64 decoder)
* [cityhash](https://github.com/google/cityhash/blob/8af9b8c2b889d80c22d6bc26ba0df1afb79a30db/src/city.cc#L50) (byte swap operations)
* [stb_ds.h](https://github.com/nothings/stb/blob/master/stb_ds.h) (typesafe dynamic array and hash tables for C)
* [ltalloc](https://github.com/r-lyeh-archived/ltalloc) (fast memory allocator)
* [glad](https://github.com/Dav1dde/glad) (OpenGL loader)
* [Keycode](https://github.com/depp/keycode) (library for platform-independent keyboard input handling)
* [ImGuiFileDialog](https://github.com/aiekick/ImGuiFileDialog) (file dialog for dear ImGui)

Uses [SDL2](https://www.libsdl.org/download-2.0.php) and [GLEW](http://glew.sourceforge.net/) on Linux/macOS.

The application icon was made by [Freepik](https://www.flaticon.com/authors/freepik) from [Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/).

## License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

See [LICENSE.txt](https://github.com/Falcury/slideviewer/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) for more information.
